COMP: Data to Decisions: Frank Brown Memorial Symposium (Oral)
COMP: Quantum Mechanics (Oral)	
CINF: Nanomaterials & Informatics (Oral)

Transition metal chemistry is important because ...
Inorganic (much more difficult, why?) vs Organic chemistry
Rigorously map them / find distances
Enumerate them
Convert them into RACs
Correlated wavefunction description like DLPNO vs DFT, both structure specific
Multi-fidelity optimization with co-kriging

Due to their wide range of tunable electronic properties, transition metal complexes are of great interest to the field of functional inorganic materials. However, exhaustive enumeration of all possible complexes leads to a vast and impenetrable chemical space. In order to be more tractable, we restrict ourselves to octahedral high symmetry complexes. From previous work we know that proximal features (i.e. from the first and second coordination shell) describe a complex reasonably well, thus we imose a further restriction of two heavy atoms (CONSP) per ligand. Now we can assess complex properties of this chemical subspace using data-driven models. The subspace is represented using the graph theoretical revised autocorrelation functions (RACs) that encode relationships of atomic properties. Since the computational cost to perform high-throughput density functional theory calculations is still very high, we enhance the results with more exact correlated wavefunction calculations like domain-based local pair-natural orbital coupled cluster DLPNO CCSD(T) approximations. To accommodate the results of these composition dependent models, we use machine learning techniques. This approach lets us assess the difference between correlated wavefunction results and DFT results as well deliver an estimation where the DFT result is likely to agree with the correlated wavefunction result.

Title: Multifidelity machine learning of transition metal complex cores 
Transition metal complexes are promising functional inorganic materials due to their wide range of tunable electronic properties. However, exhaustive enumeration of all possible ligand fields is clearly intractable due to the vast nature of chemical space. Virtual high-throughput screening with density functional theory (DFT) allows us to harvest leads with desired properties, but is severely constrained by 1) long calculation times and 2) variable accuracy. More accurate correlated methods are available to address 2) but drastically worsen 1). Machine learning techniques potentially allow us to address both of these issues simultaneously, and our group has previously developed data-driven models based on DFT results which have highlighted the dominant role of metal-proximal (i.e. from first and second coordination shell) atoms in predicting spin state ordering, bond lengths and ionization potential of the metal center. This motivates a detailed study of the range of possible local octahedral metal environments through systematic exploration of the space of ligands with up to two heavy (CONSP) atoms. We sample this space with high-throughput DFT and enhance the results selectively with more accurate correlated wavefunction calculations using domain-based local pair-natural orbital coupled cluster DLPNO CCSD(T). We then apply machine learning to assess the difference between correlated wavefunction and DFT results in a composition-dependent manner, and learn property estimates for the full space of possible core environments along with estimates of DFT reliability relative to CCSD(T).

comp dep inad
take cok out, rp w more generic
prev work has ind sign local eff
exploiting our findings w strong locality, first and second shell are very important
where do they agree uncertainty on dft.      
best outcome: correcture pred as a fnc of comp

